♪ I swam all
around the world ♪
♪ I've seen this ocean
on my own ♪
♪ And then I found
my way to Reeftown ♪
♪ And I knew that
I'd found my home ♪
♪ I met my friend
Bubbles here ♪
♪ Our friendship
is the best ♪
[all]
♪ Oh, dive in ♪
- ♪ Splash and Bubbles ♪
- ♪ Dive in ♪
[all] ♪ We're making friends
in the ocean ♪
♪ Come along with us
and see it all ♪
♪ With pals
like Dunk and Ripple ♪
♪ We'll explore
this world together ♪
[both] ♪ When you share
adventures with your friends ♪
♪ It makes them
so much better ♪
[all] ♪ Oh, dive in,
Splash and Bubbles ♪
- ♪ Dive in ♪
- [all] ♪ We're making friends
in the ocean ♪
♪ In this world
beyond belief ♪
[all] ♪ Come see
the greatest reef ♪
♪ Oh, dive in,
Splash and Bubbles ♪
- ♪ Dive in ♪
- [all] ♪ Start making friends
in the ocean ♪
♪ Come along with us,
dive right in ♪
♪ Da da da da da ♪
[all laughing and cheering]
Oh! I love the deep.
I can't wait to see Lu.
Ooh, I know,
and I can't wait to see
what kind of fun expedition
Lu has planned for us today.
And I can't wait to see
all the new
and interesting creatures
we'll find in the deep!
And I just can't wait to see.
It's dark down here.
Lu and Bob live
right around here,
but I don't see them anywhere.
- This way, sweetheart.
- [sighs]
- Okay, Bob.
- There you go.
[sighing]
- Okay, steady as she goes.
- Okay.
[grunts] Ow!
Ah, no problem.
- [groans]
- A little further.
- Okay.
- Normally, she's easy to find
with her bright
bioluminescent light.
Oh!
Hey, kids, over here.
[gasps]
That sounds like Bob's voice.
I think it came
from this way.
- [Splash] Okay.
- What?
[all chattering excitedly]
No, no, back--
back this way.
Whoa, kids, over here!
- Oh, okay, back over here.
- Wait, it's this way.
- Uh, maybe over here.
- It was definitely this way.
- Kids, over here.
- Oh.
Oh, oh.
Oh.
- Oh.
- Ah, there you are!
Hi, Lu.
Hi, Bob. Hi.
We've been looking
everywhere for you.
[sadly] Hey, kiddos.
Lu, are you okay?
You don't seem
like yourself today.
Yeah, we couldn't find you
because your light's not on.
Well, that's just it, guys.
It doesn't work anymore.
- What?
- [all gasp]
- No!
- What-- what happened, Lu?
I wish I knew,
but the light in my esca
just won't come on.
Oh, no, poor Lu.
First her light goes out,
now her esca doesn't work!
What's an esca?
The esca is where the light
actually comes from,
so it's kind of
one in the same.
Kinda like you and me,
eh, buttercup?
Thanks for trying
to cheer me up, Bobby.
If I could only be fused with
one fish in the whole ocean,
I'm glad it's you.
Aw, well, how long
has your light been out, Lu?
Just since yesterday.
Bob and I were
down here in the deep
- playing around in some mud...
- As you do!
And then, poof,
my light just goes right out.
Ow. Ooh.
And I haven't been able
to get it to work since then.
- [all] Oh.
- Well, don't worry, Lu.
We'll figure something out.
Um, is there a way to add
some new light to your esca?
I wish, but not really.
The light in my esca comes from
this bioluminescent bacteria.
Well, did the bacteria
leave your esca?
Maybe, but I'm not sure why.
I thought we had a pretty good
symbiotic relationship going.
I give the bacteria
a place to live,
and they give me light.
Sounds like a good deal to me.
[Bob] Well, esca or no esca,
you'll always be
the light of my life.
[chuckles]
- Aww.
- Ooh, ow!
Oh, honey,
you gotta watch the face.
It's all I got left.
Ooh, sorry, Bobby.
I didn't see that one there.
But, Lu, if you can't see
down here in the deep,
how will you get any food?
Yeah, I mean, the esca
lures food to your light.
Tell me about it, kids.
Since my light went out,
I haven't eaten a thing.
- [gasps]
- Hey, I know a place
where there's plenty of food
and it's easy to see,
even without
the light in your esca.
Wh-- where?
Reeftown!
Reeftown?
But that's up in the bright sun.
I've never been up there before.
Ah, yeah, but there's plenty
of new places
for a fearless explorer
like you to discover, Lu.
And lots of new creatures.
And you already have
four friends up there
who can teach you
everything there is to know
about living up in the light.
Aw, really?
You mean it, kids?
Of course,
it's the least we can do
after all you've done for us.
That's very nice of you,
kiddos,
but I don't know
if football fish were meant
to live in the bright sun.
What do you think, Bobby?
I think if you can't find
any food down here,
maybe it's time
to move on to brighter seas.
- Am I right?
- Well...
I guess it couldn't hurt
to see things
from the sunny side
of the ocean.
[all cheer]
[laughter and chatter]
- [sighs]
- Whoa!
Sweet, salty water,
it's bright up here!
Oh, kids,
did you take us to Reeftown
or just put us on the surface
of the sun?
Oh, how do you see
in all this light?
But we're not even
in Reeftown yet.
This isn't even full sunlight.
[grunts]
I gotta get outta here.
I'm right beside you.
- Lu and Bob, uh...
- Wait, wait.
- [sighs]
- I'm sorry, Lu. Are you okay?
Oh, I'll be fine,
Splash-a-rooni,
but I'm afraid
we may not be able
to live in Reeftown
after all.
Why not?
Well, Dunk,
our eyes are made to see
in the dark, dark, deep,
and not up here
in the bright, bright, light.
Oh, well, I'm sorry my idea
didn't work out for you, Lu.
Oh, it was a good idea, Dunk,
but we'll have
to figure something else out.
No worries, little pufferoo.
Lu, you may not like it here,
but being up
in the bright sunlight,
you can see things
you may not have seen before.
Oh, yeah?
Like what, Bubbles?
Well, like the fact
that your esca is covered
with icky, sticky mud.
[gasps]
Bubbles, you're right!
Lu's light never went out.
It's just coated in icky,
clumpy mud.
[laughs]
Oh, my goodness gracious!
Bobby, we must have
gotten it covered in mud
yesterday when we were playing.
I think you're right.
Now the question is
how do we get it off?
[gasps]
Ooh.
You happen to be in the presence
of a mud expert.
[laughs]
Let me at that ooey-gooey mud.
Okay.
Ah, take that?
[grunts]
Okay, how about this?
Huh?
Ah...
[laughs]
All right,
no more Mrs. Nice Fish.
Take this, you mud.
[laughs]
Yeah. Uh...
Ah-- I'm out of ideas.
Oh, well, that's okay,
Bubbles.
You may be an expert on mud,
but there's someone else
who's an expert
on cleaning off dirty,
clumpy messes.
- [gasps] Who?
- Who?
- [muffled speech]
- [laughs]
Maury, I don't know where
you come up with this stuff.
- [muffled speech]
- Ah, come on.
Now I know you're
just pulling my claw.
Denny? Denny!
Hey, uh, we need your help.
- I have a cleaning emergency.
- Okay, I'm on it.
I just need to...
[crunch]
And Maury's all done.
Ah, thanks, Denny.
You are a lifesaver.
Oh, my pleasure.
Okay, so what's
this emergency, Splash?
Well, I'll show you.
Come with me.
Okay.
Bye, Maury.
I'll see you later.
Bye, Denny, see you soon!
Have fun!
If anyone can make
this better,
- it's Denny.
- Oh, okay.
Yeah, she'll figure out
what it is.
What's happening?
I can't see anything.
Hmm, interesting.
Ah, do you think
you'll be able
to get the mud off of Lu's esca?
It's some pretty thick mud.
It sure is,
but that's not a problem.
I eat parasites that are thicker
than this for breakfast.
[all chuckle]
No, seriously. I do.
Let's get to work.
[crunching]
Oh, it sounds bad.
Does it hurt, buttercup?
No, actually, it,
uh, feels much better.
That's because
you're all clean!
- Ah.
- Oh, yeah!
[all cheer]
Hey, look at that light go.
It hasn't been
this bright in years.
Yeah, there was
a lot of build-up on it.
You should go see
the cleaner shrimp more often.
Well, maybe I will.
Or, better yet,
you can come see me sometime.
- These guys know the way.
- We sure do.
Speaking of,
let's give that new esca a spin.
- What do you say?
- Let's do it!
[laughs]
Yeah, let's do it!
- We're ready.
- Yeah!
Aw, kids, thanks again.
It feels so much better
to have my little old esca back
and shining bright again.
And it feels better for us
to be able to see
when we're down here
with you.
You said it.
How about you, Bobby?
You loving all this light?
Oh, all the better
to see you with, my dear.
[both chuckle]
But, uh, I am still
a little hungry.
You think we can use
that new light in your esca
- to find us some food?
- You bet.
Now my esca's working again,
we should have no trouble
shining a light
on our home sweet home.
[all cheer]
We love the deep.
♪ The deep, deep ocean ♪
♪ Such a remarkable place ♪
♪ But it's hard
to see your fin ♪
♪ When it's right
in front of your face ♪
- ♪ Because it's dark ♪
- ♪ Yes, it's dark ♪
- ♪ Dark and deep ♪
♪ Dark and deep
where we live and sleep ♪
- ♪ But it's all good ♪
- ♪ It's all good ♪
♪ We're all right
in the deep dark water ♪
♪ Where the sunlight
doesn't shine ♪
- ♪ Whole lot of life ♪
- ♪ Is happening here ♪
♪ Listen up and swim on down
and never fear ♪
♪ Incredible things
are here to be found ♪
♪ And I know one
who'll show you all around ♪
- ♪ All around ♪
- ♪ I'll show you wonders ♪
♪ Like you've
never seen before ♪
♪ And when you think
you've seen it all ♪
♪ I'll show you more ♪
- ♪ The water's cold ♪
- Brr.
♪ As we go lower ♪
[all] ♪ Life down here moves
a little bit slower ♪
♪ And when it gets darker
than the darkest night ♪
♪ We know how to shine
a light ♪
- Don't we, friends?
- ♪ Bioluminescence ♪
♪ Shine a light ♪
- ♪ Hmm, shining bright ♪
♪ With bioluminescence
and all our other senses ♪
♪ We've adapted
to our home sweet home ♪
Good job, Bob.
♪ And yes it's dark ♪
- ♪ Yes, it's dark ♪
- ♪ Dark and deep ♪
♪ Dark and deep ♪
- Ha ha!
♪ Dark and deep
where we live and sleep ♪
- ♪ But it's all good ♪
- ♪ It's all good ♪
- ♪ We're all fine ♪
- ♪ Ooh-ooh ♪
♪ Here where the sunlight
doesn't shi-i-ne ♪
♪ Swim on down and never fear ♪
♪ There's a whole
lot of life down he-e-re ♪
♪ Whole lot of life
down here ♪
Whoopee!
Mud, sweet mud.
[laughs]
I could spend all day a-swimming
and a-floating
in this perfectly mucky,
yucky mud.
I love mud!
♪ I it like yucky ♪
♪ And all the ucky ♪
♪ So if it's yucky
and it's ucky ♪
♪ Well, then,
I should be so lucky ♪
♪ If it's slimy ♪
♪ And if it's grimy ♪
[chuckles]
♪ Well, let the party begin ♪
♪ Oh, I like the yucky stuff ♪
♪ And really,
I can't get enough ♪
♪ So now you know how I feel ♪
♪ You'll find me
where it's muddy ♪
♪ And really cruddy ♪
♪ 'Cause where it's cruddy
and it's muddy ♪
♪ I might find
a brand-new buddy ♪
♪ If it's greasy ♪
♪ I don't get queasy ♪
Unh-unh!
♪ Give me goopy,
and you know I'm all in! ♪
♪ When something's oozin' ♪
♪ You'll see me cruisin' ♪
♪ You know I'm choosin'
to take a good look ♪
♪ And if it's gooey,
gimme extra ooey ♪
♪ I like it yucky-ucky
slimy-grimy ♪
♪ Muddy-cruddy,
gloppy-sloppy ♪
♪ All the yucky stuff
is treatin' me right ♪
♪ And that's the stuff
that I like ♪
♪ Hmm ♪
[laughs]
- Bubbles, there you are.
- We've been looking for you.
Ah, slime slugs.
Is it time to go home already?
Well, we didn't wanna
spoil your mud party, Bubbles,
but, yeah,
it's kind of that time.
- Aren't you getting tired?
- Nope.
[laughs]
If I had it my way,
I'd stay up all night
and never go to sleep.
Yeah, I don't think
I could stay up all night long.
I'd fall asleep in my sand art.
Bubbles, every fish has to go
to sleep when it's dark out.
It's just, well, the way it is
here in the ocean.
Oh, you guys might wanna check
your fin facts on that one.
- Hi, Zee!
- Well, what do you mean?
Well,
not every fish in Reeftown
goes to sleep at night.
- What are you saying, Zee?
- How's that possible?
I'd like to meet this fish
that stays awake all night long.
Ahem. Hello? It's me.
Your friendly neighborhood
zebra bullhead shark.
- Whoa, that's amazing!
- No way!
That's right.
I'm nocturnal.
[stammers]
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Get back to the part
where you stay up all night.
Oh, well, that's
what "nocturnal" means.
I sleep most of the day,
and I'm awake at night.
See?
[laughs]
I told you there was a way
for me
to stay up and play and play!
[laughs]
Hold your fins, Bubbles.
Zee is nocturnal,
but we are definitely diurnal,
which means we're awake
during the day
and we go to sleep at night.
But, Splash,
you're a fusilier,
and you said that fusilier's
don't need much sleep.
Well, true,
but even schooling fish
like fusiliers
have to get some rest
at night.
[yawns] Speaking
of getting rest at night,
I think it's time for all of us
to go home and get some sleep.
- Yeah, okay, guys, good night.
- Good night, everyone.
- Good night!
- Yeah, right, sleep, whatever.
Nocturnal, huh?
Hmm.
[gasps]
Ooh, yeah!
[laughs]
[all yawn]
Good night, Dunk.
Good night, Ripple.
Sweet dreams, Splash.
Aww, you too, buddy.
Don't let the slime slugs bite.
- Splash!
- Agh!
- I got an idea.
- Okay.
What would you say...
if I decided to become...
nocturnal?
Uh... not okay.
- Why not?
- Well, Bubbles, for one,
you are not nocturnal, and two,
since I've known you,
you've never stayed up
all night.
How do you know
you're not nocturnal
- until you tried it, huh?
- Bubbles, please tell me
you are not thinking about
staying up all night tonight.
Oh, Splash,
of course I'm not thinking about
staying up all night tonight.
- [laughs]
- Oh, good, okay.
I am staying up all night
tonight.
- What?
- With my pal, Zee.
- No, but, Bubbles--
- All right, catch you later!
Yeah, but, Bubbles,
did you ask Zee if you could--
- Much later!
- [ sighs]
well, better get some sleep
while I can.
[chuckles]
- Okay, so that's done.
- Zee!
- I've decided to join you!
- Uh, you have?
I have.
I'm gonna be nocturnal
just like you.
- You are?
- I am.
Um, Bubbles, I'm not sure
that's such a good idea.
Why not?
We can have
so much fun together.
Well, I don't think
being nocturnal
is something you can
just decide to be.
Try me.
Eh?
Hmm, well, I guess it would
be fun to have another friend
to swim around Reeftown with
at night.
[laughs]
Fintastic!
Let's get this slumber party
started.
Except for the slumber part,
right?
[chuckles]
Right.
But, um, being nocturnal
isn't really a party all night.
I mean, I have lots
of important things to do.
Really?
Like what?
Well, I look for food.
Ah, that could be fun.
I check out new hiding spots.
Ooh, great.
We can play in them.
I make sure my home is clean.
Uh... wha-- love it.
And I figure out ways
to stay safe from predators.
Whoa, what happened
to the playing part?
Well, when you're nocturnal,
there are lots of things
you need to do at night,
and then, if there's time,
you can play.
Hmm, sounds like all the
things that you do at night,
we diurnal fish
do during the day.
Pretty much,
but the reef looks and sounds
a whole lot different
in the middle of the night.
It's really beautiful.
Cool.
It sure is.
Hey, let's swim.
And I'll show you
all sorts of surprises.
Ah, Zee, the water
looks so different at night.
Ah, I'm glad you're getting
a chance to see it, Bubbles.
Aww, me too.
[yawns]
Right this way,
the tour continues.
- All right then.
- Just through here.
So cool. Ow!
Ooh, careful, Bubbles.
You know,
your eyes may not be used
to the change
in colors at night.
Yeah. [chuckles]
I can't see so well,
and, uh,
I can't swim so fast either.
Hey, Zee, how can you
swim so fast at night?
Well, because at night,
I use my electroreception
and other senses to help me swim
and get around the reef.
- Well, hello, girls.
- Hey.
Bubbles, what a surprise
to see you wide awake at night.
Ah, not as surprised
as I am to see you.
Denny, I had no idea
you were nocturnal.
Sure am.
Those parasites in Maury's mouth
are a delicious treat
during the day,
but at night,
I like to go out
and smell for my food
with my antennae.
Hey.
Maybe I could go out
and start sniffing for my food.
- Ha ha!
- Oh, uh, careful now.
- Agh!
- [both] Oh.
Ow.
You okay, Bubbles?
Whoa!
[chuckles] I'm okay.
Just a little dizzy
but still nocturnal.
- [chuckles weakly]
- Maybe we should rethink this.
Aw, don't worry about me, Zee.
I'm totally fine.
Come on.
Let's keep exploring Reeftown
at night.
Okay.
Let's go.
- Bye, Denny.
- Bye, Denny!
- Oh, bye, girls.
- [thump]
[Bubbles] Ow!
Oh, I'm fine.
Oh, good luck, Bubbles.
[sighs]
Whoa. What is all this?
Ah, Mayor Sting must have
burrowed around here somewhere.
He makes these sand pits
at night
when he looks for food.
Well, hello there, Bubbles.
Hello, Zee.
Wow!
Mayor Sting's nocturnal, too!
Sure am, and it's a beautiful
Big Bright Bubble night tonight.
Perfect time to patrol
and protect the citizens
of Reeftown.
- How are you, Bubbles?
- Bubbles?
Aah.
I'm up.
I'm totally up.
[laughs weakly]
Where are we going next?
Oh, now where did I put it?
Ah, if only I paid more
attention to my dinner,
I'd be eating my dessert
about now.
- Maury?
- Huh?
What're you doing up so late?
Oh.
Bubbles, the question isn't
what am I doing up so late,
but what are you doing
up so late?
Bubbles has decided
to become nocturnal.
Uh, Bubbles?
Huh?
[mutters and gasps]
Yeah, I'm up, I'm up.
Wow.
Dolphin Canyon is
so beautiful at night.
[chuckles]
[murmuring]
A nighttime finball
is definitely in my future.
[snoring]
Uh...
yeah, well, I guess
some of us are nocturnal
and others, um, not so much.
[chuckles]
I think it's time
to get our diurnal dragonet
back to Pebble Place.
I'll see you later, Maury.
Hey, maybe join you
for a late-night snack?
Oh, sure.
If I, uh, can find it.
[chuckles]
Bye.
Where'd I put that?
[sighs]
Gee, Bubbles,
I don't know about you,
but for a nocturnal fish,
I'm completely exhausted.
Ah, can't take it, huh?
[laughs weakly]
[chuckles]
Come on.
Yeah, well...
Come on, let's go.
Yeah, us nocturnal fish
have a...
I'm a nocturnal fish.
You're a nocturnal fish
tonight.
Hey there, nocturnal fish.
[chuckles]
- Rise and shine.
- Oh. [chuckles]
How was
your nocturnal adventure?
Turns out being
a nocturnal fish
isn't something you can just,
uh, choose.
- Really?
-Yeah.
Well, you see, all the things
that nocturnal fish do at night,
we diurnal fish
do during the day.
You mean like,
eat, play, and swim?
Yeah.
They have these special sensors
that help them
to see in the dark,
smell for food,
and swim around the reef
- without bumping into things.
- Wow.
Reeftown at night
sounds fascinating.
- Yeah.
- Who knew?
[both] Zee.
- Yeah.
- Oh.
Hey, you know what?
I wanna thank her.
Come with me.
Come on.
- Yeah, let's go see Zee.
- Great idea.
- Come on!
- Zee, I just came to--
Hey, Zee-- [gasps]
Well, how do you like that?
I guess even nocturnal creatures
need to catch
their Zs sometime.
[all chuckle softly]
Aw, we should let her sleep.
- Yeah.
- Sweet dreams, Zee.
- Sweet dreams.
- Bye.
[Ripple] Good night.
[upbeat music]
♪ Da da, da da ♪
♪ Ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh ♪
♪ Oooh ♪
♪ Da da, da da ♪
♪ Ooh ooh, ooh ooh ♪
♪ Da da da da da ♪